It's the 24th of July, 1987. We're at the Hyatt
Hotel in Kansas City, Missouri. And I'm here with
Ellen Black from the faculty of the University of
Kansas at Lawrence.
Ellen, would you tell us a little bit about your
background? Well, I grew up in the Boston area. And
I went to Harvard and majored in philosophy.
And after graduation, I started out as a newspaper
reporter and worked at that for six years,
starting out with a very small weekly paper and
kept changing jobs and gradually moved up. And
after a couple of years, I became a sports editor of
a small daily paper in Middletown, New York. And
then in 1955, I decided to go to California And I got
a job as sports editor of the Hayward paper,
Hayward, California, which was only about 15,000
people at that time. I guess it's over 100,000
today. I think so. Yeah. That wasn't a very good
job, and I only kept that for a number of months. But
then I was fortunate enough to get a good job with
the San Jose Mercury, which is quite a large, large
paper. And I worked on it about two and a half years.
During that time I became rather disillusioned
with reporting and at the same time became quite
interested in city planning. City planning in the
Bay Area then was a popular topic. Yeah, well it was
a time of tremendous growth and a lot of problems
coming from it and as a general reporter, which I
was for the Mercury, about About half of the news is
police news, and about half is local government.
And 2% or 3% fit it in for odd things. And I would say
at least half of the local government news had
something to do with planning or land use
development. I was technically interested in
Fremont, where I started and lived for about a
year. And they decided to employ a couple of
reporters there because they're just
incorporated as a city. And one of the first things
that city council did was to hire a planning
consultant to draw a comprehensive plan for
Fremont. And that consultant was Harold Wise, and
quite a complicated story that happened that's
not really relevant here, but it was quite an
interesting plan, and a lot of it was carried out.
Who was the planning director? Well, they did a
nationwide search. They had a search for a city
manager first, and then for the planning
director, and the person who was hired was named
Dick Wilkinson, who had done his master's degree
at Oklahoma. And they later on went to Redwood
City, I think. I don't know what happened to him. I
lost track of him. Who took over after Dick? Do you
know? I think Roy Potter. Roy Potter.
He's in San Diego now. Yeah, I've lost track of most
of those California people. But I used to know a lot
of the planning directors around the Bay Area.
After that, I moved to the Peninsula office and
mostly covered Mountain View and Los Gatos. Los
Altos. Los Altos. Right.
Lawrence Livingston was a consultant in Los
Altos. I got to know him a bit. Do you know Bill
Spangle? uh only very slightly you know there was
let's say there were two directors in mountain
view uh i think the first one was named george
brenner and then he was succeeded by dick gamble
and again i'm not sure they're probably still in
california somewhere dick gamble's dead is that
right he worked for the uh bunny department of san
francisco and I met him when we were both employed
with Wilsey Hammond Blair in Foster City, but he
died. I didn't know that. So along about the
beginning of 1958, I decided I'd leave newspaper
field and go to graduate school and get a master's
degree in planning. And so I applied to several
schools, and I was Really interested in going to
Berkeley, and they accepted me, but they didn't
offer me any financial aid. After working all
those years, you needed financial aid? Reporters
don't get paid very much. Only in the Mercury, I was
in a union job. I mean, I started out with that $40 a
week when I graduated from Harvard. Boy.
And I gradually, when I... Got into the mercury.
Overnight, my salary went up a lot. But even so, I
think at the time I left, I was only making a little
over $5,000 a year. So I really hadn't saved very
much. Well, I think I was offered a research
assistantship by North Carolina, and I decided to
go there because of that. Although I think, if I
recall, the amount was $1,800. for the
assistantship, which seemed like a lot of money at
that time. Well, they probably waived your
tuition, too. I got a reduction. I think I got
in-state tuition, which was fairly nominal.
Yeah. But I didn't like it very much at North
Carolina. Part of the personal thing that I was
research assistant to Peter Nash. And he ran into
some trouble in the middle of the year and had to
resign from the faculty. And he left at the end of
that year. What happened? Well, Peter, that's
quite a long story. So you left North Carolina and
then you? I went out, I believe, at Christmas time
on vacation and went and talked to Jack Kent. to see
if I could transfer. And he agreed to give me full
credits for the year at North Carolina. So in June,
I packed up and left Chapel Hill. And I did an
internship in San Jose, Santa Clara County, in
that summer. And then I did my second year at
Berkeley. That was with Michael Antonacci in
Santa Clara County? No. No, he was the city
planning director. That's right. He was with San
Jose. He was with Carl. Belser. Carl Belser's
agency, right.
I knew Carl quite well. Well, I worked more with Roy
Cameron, who later became the director. Now, Carl
was hot on agricultural zoning at that time. Yes,
he was. I really didn't have much to do with him.
Well, it was quite a big agency even then. There
were like 40 people in the planning center. Yes, I
think that they had the reputation of being one of
the finest county planning departments in the
United States. That's right.
So after your internship in the summer, then? Then
I did my second year at Berkeley. And you're
interested in Jack Kent, I think. Well, anyone
that you can stand on that, particularly.
Well, Jack sort of picked me out from the students
and got me interested in the general plan. And I
agreed to find out to write a master's thesis on it
It was after I'd been there about three months or
so. And
at the time, there was an option between taking a
comprehensive exam and doing a thesis. And
everybody took the exam, but I decided to do a
thesis. When I was there, they didn't have the
option. It changed shortly after that.
You had to do a thesis. Yeah. Well, I read your
thesis at the time. I remember that. Oh, you did?
Didn't you do it under Kenyon? I thought the
general plan was on somewhere, wasn't it? Yes, it
was. You needn't have read it, though. I mean,
there wasn't much to it.
It was the Metropolitan Open Space in the San
Francisco Bay region. All right.
Mm-hmm. So Jack was- I know what happened. What
they did was there were so many people that weren't
getting their degrees because they never
finished their thesis. Right. that they opened it
up for an option to take a comp exam. So at least
these people could get a degree to get out of there.
That's a universal problem in planning schools
everywhere I've been. Well, I think there were 20
that graduated my class. I think 18 took the exam.
And two took the thesis. And the other one besides
me was Alan Blackman. I don't think he ever
finished. Alan Blackman? I don't think he ever got
his degree.
So Jack was very insecure about his writing and was
particularly interested in me because I had been a
journalist and he was impressed with my writing.
So I finished my thesis in the summer after the
second year and got my degree. Wait a minute, what
was the topic? It was called Functions of the Urban
General Plan, I think. Functions of the Urban
General Plan. What was the date then? That was
1960. I think I got my degree in October of 1960.
And then I took a job in Chicago with a
transportation study there. With CATS? With
CATS, Chicago Area Transportation Study. And
that started me in the transportation field,
which has been my special area ever since. That was
purely accidental. I never took a course in that at
Berkeley. I think I had one course, a required
course, in traffic engineering at North
Carolina. I mostly wanted to do research. I got
quite interested in statistics. And this agency
was... was known as a research-oriented agency.
Mel Weber had promoted it very much. He was more
research-oriented than anybody else at Berkeley
at that time.
So I kind of moved into that, and the first few
papers I did were fairly statistical,
mathematical. In the meantime, as John Kent
pushed along on writing his book, So I think he'd
sort of been working on them for about 10 years,
little by little. 10 years? I think so. He had
different things. He'd write papers, and then
he'd put it aside. This will be part of the book, and
so forth. But in the early 60s, he really kind of put
it together. And I don't know. Maybe he took a
sabbatical or something. I'm not really sure. But
he asked me if I'd be co-author with him. And I
thought about it for a while, and I declined,
because I really wasn't interested in the subject
much anymore. And
so he went ahead on his own, and he got a publisher.
And he used to send me to some material to comment
on, which I did. I just noticed in my files that I had
quite a few letters, long letters from him. And
however, what happened, you asked me on the phone,
I guess, last week about did Kent steal my ideas and
all. And that really wouldn't be accurate. The
ideas basically were his. And I think I suggested
some refinements in some of them, some of which he
accepted and then took into his own. But they were
fairly minor things. What he did really was he
stole my writing. And when the book finally was
completed and came out, it's divided into five
chapters. And two of the chapters essentially
were copied out of my master's thesis. Which were
they? I'd have to look at the book and see. I forgot.
One of them does deal with the functions. The other
might be a... Uses and characteristics? I think
that might be his. He had that pretty well
developed. I kind of worked on a part of his
thinking that he hadn't developed very much. I
think when he started, he had three functions, and
I added two more. I think one of them was education,
I remember. I think the other chapter he took was a
kind of background chapter. about the different
forms of government and the role of city manager.
Now the things about the Standard City Enabling
Act, that's all his. Yeah, that was the second
chapter. Essentially what he did was he took my
thesis and treated it as though it was his first
draft. And he'd make some changes and things, but
there are lots of paragraphs that are word for word
the same.
It's what we call plagiarism today. We don't let
students do it. Exactly. And you can be kicked out
of Harvard for doing it. Yes. Well, that would be
the first chapter then. No, I'm not sure it's the
first. I'd have to look at it again. I haven't
looked at it for many years. Well, it's the urban
plan, the government, and the planning process or
something like that, the first chapter. Well,
whatever. Yeah. So that, as I say, I didn't think
there was much I could do about that since I was kind
of nobody, and he was a very important person in the
field and all. But that kind of chilled our
relationship, and I never really had much to do
with him since then. I didn't realize what he was
going to do. Yeah. Too bad. OK. Well, let's see. I
want to get back now. So you were at Katz. Yes, okay,
so I worked there about three years, and then I got a
Fulbright grant to study in the Netherlands as a
student grant, not a faculty grant like we had or a
scholar grant. And I was at Delft at the
technological school. Then when I came back, I
went to work in New York City for what was then
called the Tri-State Transportation
Commission. And both of those translation
studies were directed by Douglas Carroll. And he
had been director in Chicago, and he then moved to
New York. And I guess I was one of about five people
that eventually moved from Chicago to New York
with him. So in between, I had a year in Europe. So I
worked there till 1968, and in 1967, Paul Davidoff
asked me to teach a class at Hunter College. And he
had recently become famous for advocacy planning
and had been asked to start a program at Hunter. He
was a professor at Penn at the time. He had written
his famous articles. I believe I met him at Penn
when I was there. Could be, yeah. And when he was a
student. That could be, yeah. Of course, he has a
law degree, too, or he did have. Of course, he's
deceased now. So they wanted a course in
transportation planning. And they were getting a
lot of complaints from their students that their
program wasn't practical. It was very
ideological, which of course it was. And so he
tried to hire some practitioners. And so I taught
an evening course in transportation planning.
And I enjoyed it very much. I really got a kick out of
that. And so I decided to go into teaching. And I
knew I had to get a PhD to do that. And I also had some
consciousness of inadequacies in my background.
I didn't think I knew enough about economics. I
would go to conferences, and I wouldn't
understand some of these papers that were given
there. So I applied to several schools again, and I
decided to go to Cornell, largely because Barclay
Jones was there. I knew Barclay at Berkeley. Well,
I didn't really know him very well, because the
year I was there, he was on sabbatical. Oh. And
while he was in town, he was working with Steve
Jacobs on their study of the historic
preservation of San Francisco. But he didn't
teach any courses. I think he taught a course for
architecture students, but none for planning
students. So I only knew him slightly. Then the
other connection I had with him was Pierre Clavel,
who had been in North Carolina with me, he and his
wife. And they had, in the meantime, gone up to
Cornell. He had gotten a PhD at Cornell. So when I
went to Cornell, he was a professor there. And
really, the main thing he had I mean, I considered
going back to Berkeley, too, and almost did that.
But I finally decided to go to Cornell. Did you know
John Reps at Cornell? No, I didn't. I never took a
course from him. Cornell faculty was divided into
two factions, the traditionalists and the
modernists. And I was with the modernists. And in
fact, it came down, really, that it was kind of Reps
against Barclay Jones. Really? I think there was a
period, a couple of years, they didn't speak to
each other, although I think their offices were
adjacent. Oh, dear. I know both of them, and I
admire both of them. Well, yeah, they're both very
talented people and all, but they have very
different ideas about some things.
So, well, actually, while I was at, I guess I lived
in Ithaca for four years. And last year, I taught on
the faculty. I had a one-year appointment for a
professor who was on leave. And that year,
actually, the department split into two separate
departments. And one of them that I was an
instructor in was called Policy Planning and
Regional Analysis. And it was the quantitative
one. And Barclay Jones was the chairman of that.
He'd never been able to get to be chairman before.
because he had so many enemies in the faculty. And
the other one was called Urban Planning and
Development. It was pretty much a traditional
land use planning program. And Stuart Stein was
the chair of that one. Why did Barclay have so many
enemies? He's such a pleasant chap. Well,
Barclay's kind of a schemer. Is he? And he's always
doing things behind the scenes. Over the years,
he's kind of built up his friends and his enemies.
I don't know exactly whatever happened between he
and Reps, but they had a falling out. And there was
certain faculty that lined up with Reps and
certain ones that lined up with Barkley. When I
first met Reps, I asked him if he knew Barkley. And
I had known him quite well at Berkeley before he
went to Cornell. And Rebs was very polite about it.
He said yes, he knew him. Period. Well, of course,
Barclay was an architect. And as I remember, at
Berkeley, he gave a course in urban aesthetics,
which I think was an elective course, but it was
quite popular. But all that time, he was writing
his dissertation, which was at North Carolina. He
went on in economics at North Carolina. He got his
master's in planning there. And he went out and
took that job at Berkeley and went back every
summer for five years to write his dissertation.
And he finally finished it, I think, in 61. And at
that point, basically shifted either then or when
he went to Cornell, which was a year or two later,
shifted his orientation and put architecture all
behind him and went in for economics. Incredible.
So many people at Cornell, not knowing his
background, wouldn't believe you if you said he
was an architect. Yeah, because he and Jacobs were
Doing a lot of collaborations. Yes, and I think
Jacobs went first at Cornell, I think. And I think
Barclay went a year later. Steve died some years
ago. He was playing squash at Cornell. OK,
so then you were teaching at Cornell. And then what
happened? I had this one-year appointment.
The professor came back, and Barclay couldn't
find anything else for me. And Roger Creighton had
been trying to get me to go work for him for some
time. And he had been with me in Chicago.
Carol was the director of the Chicago study, and
Roger Creighton was the assistant director.
And then later, he didn't go to New York City. He
went to upstate New York. And he moved to Albany.
And he and John Hamburg both moved from Chicago to
Albany. And they ran the upstate New York
transportation studies, the first big one in
Buffalo. And they did Rochester, Syracuse, all
the cities. And then Roger and John eventually
left and started a consulting firm in Albany
called Creighton Hamburg Incorporated. And so
Roger came in the middle of the year that I was
teaching. I guess that would be like in January of
72. And he made me a firm offer for a job. And Barclay
Jones just couldn't make any commitments at
Cornell. He just didn't have a faculty line open.
And so I took the job in Albany and went off there
work half-time and write my dissertation the
other half-time.
What was your dissertation topic? Well, it's
quite a mathematical study on mass transit. It's
on optimizing the design of mass transit systems.
And I worked on it five years in the end. And it's
huge. It's over 700 pages. It was the longest one
they'd ever had at Cornell, or I think somebody's
passed it since then.
David Johnson had one almost as long. I think a
fellow's at Tennessee now. This was about 600 and
some pages, I think. So you got your PhD. So, well, I
worked... My original arrangement was that I
would work alternate weeks, but that never works
out. And I became responsible for a contract
working on a transfer proposal for the west side of
Manhattan. It was part of the West Side Highway
Project, which was the biggest contract that
Creighton had at that time. And it was so much
pressure and all that I went a long time without
working on my dissertation at all.
Sometimes I had to go to New York every day, every
week for meetings and all, which was a three hour
train ride each
way. But that was my really only exposure to the
world of politics, although it was bureaucratic
politics. But my other jobs had been very
sheltered. They were really, even though they
were with government agencies, they were really
academic-type research jobs. I never met the
public or elected officials. But my work, I have to
say, that was my one consulting experience, my one
real experience. I did learn an awful lot about the
real world that I didn't know about before. But I
finally came to a point where
I had to decide whether I was going to finish my
dissertation or forget about it. And at one time,
then, Norm offered me a job in Cleveland to be his
assistant. And then I kind of had to decide,
because I knew if I took that job in Cleveland, I
could forget about the dissertation. But I turned
it down. and decided to go ahead and finish the
dissertation. And so I finally resigned from
Creighton Hamburg. And I just sort of holed up in my
apartment in Albany and just worked straight
through the dissertation. Let's see, this would
be in 1974.
And I guess it took about eight months, finally.
And I had to do a lot of computer runs. So I used to run
back to Cornell to use the computer there. I
usually stayed with Pierre and Ann Clavell. And
they were very generous to me through the years.
And basically, even if they went away on vacation,
they let me stay in their house for a week at a time.
So finally, I completed a whole draft just before
Christmas in 1974. And then, knowing this was
going to happen, I sort of looked around for a job.
because I felt I could go to work in January. But
there usually weren't very many jobs, but it just
so happened that Kyle Goldschmidt was looking for
a fill-in for two quarters starting in January of
75 at Michigan State. And it was only a half-time
position, teaching one course a quarter. But it
was something, it was experience, and so I I took
that position and
went out and spent about six months in Lansing. And
had
trouble. I didn't get along there very well. There
were kind of these three old men on the faculty. And
actually, my line, my position was one of Myles
Boylan's. It was his line. And he did a research
grant. And so he bought himself off. for one
semester, or two quarters. They had a quarter
system.
So I didn't really get along with Miles and the
other two older faculty. And it became obvious
that I couldn't stay there. So I went out looking
for a job again. And meanwhile, I had my
dissertation hearing, and I passed that. And I
lined up a typist to type 700 pages. But
I guess I was able to, I got two job offers then from
George Washington University, which is where my
brother teaches, and from Texas. And I decided to
take the one in Texas. And so I moved down to Texas in
the summer of 75. That was when John Gallery was the
chair of the planning program. From
Pennsylvania. Yeah, from the Philadelphia area.
The search committee was Jim Hotling and Sandy
Rosenbloom and a student. I went down there and
they interviewed me. I liked it quite well there,
so I decided to pick that one.
Well, not only my brother, but my mother was living
in the Washington area. Very disappointed I
didn't take the job at George Washington.
So I moved down, and my dissertation got finished.
The typist would mail off sections from, she was at
Ithaca, would mail off chapters that she finished
typing them, and then I would correct them.
Finally, at the end, about the last week, I hired a
Kelly girl to work for me to finish up the
corrections. And then I finally put it together
and mailed it off, and it got there on the deadline.
So I think the last day of my seven-year limit. You
had seven years to complete your work for a
doctorate. And I just made it. This was in
September of 75. That's when my doctorate was
officially awarded. Good planning.
So that puts me in Texas. Yes, with John Gallery and
Sandy Rosenblum and so forth. Yes, and the others
in the faculty were Peter Coleman and Terry Kahn.
And my line, my position had been held by Ray
Parkins, who was a black professor. And I'm not
sure when he came, I met him. He was also, I think, a
minister. And maybe both a divinity degree and a
law degree. He was very active in the state
legislature. And I understand he had some
contacts and some of the legislators and
apparently got certain housing passed with
regard, certain bills passed with regard to
housing. that was before i went there i don't know
much about it he was offered a position at the
university of tennessee and left and that created
the vacancy that i feel how long were you at texas i
would say six years from 75 to 1981.
and then after gallery went back to philadelphia
there were some changes in the structure. I could
even go back, if you want, and tell you what I know
about what was there. Of course, the program was
started by Hugo Leipziger Pierce. Yes. I've
interviewed Hugo. Okay, I wasn't sure whether he
was still alive. Oh, yes. He must be in his late 80s.
He's still a very viable guy. And Martha. Martha, I
think, was a student of his, and I believe she's
quite a lot younger. Yes. maybe even 20 years. I
think Hugo went there either during or after World
War II. Well, I have that all documented. You know
all that. And I think he was teaching planning
courses in the architecture program. And
finally, let's see. There's something out of one
of our brochures I copied. It says, courses in
planning were offered as early as 1940. The
graduate professional degree Master of Science
Community Regional Planning was approved in
1959. But I don't think they had any graduates for
about five years. I think the first graduate was in
64.
Basically, it was just Hugo.
But then he took on Peter Colvin. Now, Peter Colvin
was a second graduate. He graduated in 65. In the
early years, they were graduating one student a
year. And Peter Colvin, after he left, went to the
University of Kansas and taught, I think, two
years in the architecture school there. And then-
Is he British? He's from South Africa. South
Africa. I believe his- Undergraduate school is
Witwatersrand. It's one of the major
universities in South Africa.
I've forgotten exactly when. He may have come over
to study at Texas. That's quite possible. He came
as a foreign
student. He took this position and he taught in
Lawrence, Kansas for two years. And then Hugo
apparently got authorization for another
position and recruited Peter and got him to come
back. And as part of this, the inducement made him
associate professor with tenure. So he started on
the faculty in that position, and he still has
that. I don't think he's ever been promoted beyond
that. Sounds like me. Is that how you associate
professor? For 10 years. That's all I've ever had.
Well, you've got to move, you see. I moved to
another university. Otherwise, if I was still at
Texas, I'd probably still be associate
professor.
I think it was just Hugo and Peter for several
years. And then at some point, Hugo, I guess,
stepped down, or maybe he retired, and Leon Cole
became the chair, who had a PhD from Harvard. And he
hired several of the people. I think he hired Terry
Kahn, and I know he hired Jim Hartley and Sandy
Rosenblum. And they came at the same time, and I've
forgotten.
This sort of roping, I would say maybe Terry Kahn
came in 1972, and Hartley and Rosenblum came in 73,
something like that. So Leon was able to expand the
program quite substantially in a short time. Was
he a planner? He got a PhD in planning from Harvard.
He did? Yeah. And he must have been there about four
years, something like that. I think maybe he grew
up in Texas, you know, and eventually went off to
the east to be educated and then came back.
He always reminded me of sort of a power broker
type. You know him? I met him. I'm not sure where. I
might have met him once. I certainly wouldn't
recognize him. I wouldn't either. Well, he left
all of a sudden in the middle of the year. I think he
didn't even wait until the end of the semester.
What was the reason? I'm not sure it's clear. The
things I heard from the faculty about him were he
was kind of a wheeler-dealer, and they never
really know what was going on or what he was doing.
But apparently he was very energetic, and he got a
lot of money and things. And it built up a number of
students, I think, too. He took a position in the
Library of Congress. I think as an economist. I
think he might have had a degree in economics
before he got his PhD in planning.
And he may still be there. I really haven't heard
about him for many years.
I think Peter Koltman was acting director after he
left. And I think they did a national search and
they hired John Gowery. And
then,
let's see, when I came there, okay, in the fall of
75, things were quite a bit of turmoil.
There was a dean there that was having a lot of
trouble. Now, he was from Philadelphia. His name
was Charles Burnett. He might have bought a
gallery. Maybe Burnett went there first and then
he kind of selected a gallery to come. He'd known
them in Philadelphia. I think they both were...
Burnett had a PhD in architecture, I think. He was
one of like 50 people in the country that had
doctorates in architecture. From Penn? I believe
that's right. Only a few schools give it. Berkeley
gives it. We have a doctor from Berkeley. And
this sort of came to a head right before Christmas
in 1975. And somehow the architecture faculty
gave a vote of no confidence to Burnett. And we
really weren't in on this. The planning people are
pretty isolated. But anyway, he just resigned all
of a sudden, effective in two weeks or something
like that. And then Gallery was made acting dean.
He, I guess, had been given the title of associate
dean before. I think he sort of helped with some of
the administrative work. And also, he's not
really trained in planning. He's really trained
as an architect. He just sort of picked up planning
through work experience and all through doing
urban design projects.
So John Gallery served as the acting dean for the
spring of 76. And of course, he didn't spend much
time on the planning program, and things were
pretty chaotic.
And John wanted to be the permanent dean.
But there was apparently a substantial group on
the architecture faculty that didn't want him.
And eventually, they hired Hal Lox. They hired Hal
Box away from UT Arlington. Yes, that's right. And
I understand the reason that he was hired was
because he was the oldest member of the faculty at
UT Arlington. So he must have known something.
Well, he had a very successful practice in Dallas,
I believe. One of the larger firms in Dallas.
I understand he understands very little about
planning. Well, he's not an intellectual. He's a
very good fundraiser.
Most of these people, even in planning now, have
titles on their names. They're endowed. I don't
know how to get their catalog. I mean, Sandy
Rosenblum is an endowed share. Some of them are
endowed lecturers or endowed teaching fellow.
Basically, I think there's a whole system of
salary supplements. Apparently in that school,
you know, over half of the faculty is some kind of
endowment. It gives them extra money. That's
nice. And I don't know what A&M, I mean, some of all
that endowment money went to A&M too, I think. We
don't have any endowed chairs. You don't have any?
Or an architecture? An architecture,
I don't think there are any endowed chairs either.
There's only one endowed chair in the entire
college. So
let's see. Well, when Box came and Gowley realized
he wasn't going to get the position, he kind of went
out looking for another job and left and went to
work in the city of Philadelphia for Frank Rizzo.
And so then there was an interim when Terry Kahn was
made the acting director. It may just have been one
semester. It seems to me maybe Gallery left at the
end of the fall semester.
So I think that was probably
the spring of 77 that Terry was acting director.
And then we did a national search for a current
director. I had some very good candidates, and I
think about four or five people came to interview,
and Ed McClure was selected then. I wonder if
somebody should check, I guess. Where is Ed
McClure from? Where was he from? I believe he's a
native of Florida. I believe he grew up in Florida.
And I think he was talking about visiting his
father. And
he had
started two planning programs. He got his PhD at
Harvard in planning. after many, many years. But
he started the program at VPI, which they now call
Virginia Tech. He was the first chair of that. And
then he started the program at Florida State. At
Calhoun State? Yeah. He was the originator of that
program. Also, he's a very important person in the
history of planning, really, of planning
education. Can I repeat that? No, it's over. Okay,
while Ed was in Texas, he was asked to run for
president of the Association of Collegiate
Schools of Planning. And he decided to and was
elected and really changed that whole
organization. He was most of the presidents and
then kind of caretakers. that hadn't really
pushed very much. But he had a definite platform,
which he was able to get through. Two main things he
wanted. He wanted to have separate conferences
from the professionals. He thought they really
got kind of pushed aside
by the American Planning Association as a
predecessor now. And the other thing is he wanted
to have a journal, not just a newsletter, but a
journal for planning education. And both of those
things were accomplished while he was president
and all, and both of them really have been quite
successful. Oh, yeah, the journal is really a very
high-quality publication. Well, some other
people, you know, said, well, you know, we're just
not going to have something that talks about how to
teach. You know, research is important, too.
Pierre Clavel was one of these. He, at one time, was
very active. And he said, you know, it's going to be
research as well as teaching. You know, that's the
way it's turned out. And the conferences are quite
successful too. I've never, for one reason or
another, I haven't attended them, except I think
one, but usually our department had those. Right.
Okay, so I don't know, let's see, are there other
people on the faculty? What about the program
itself? What kind of curriculum does the program
have or did it have? Has it gone through many
changes through the year? There was one major
change after McClure came.
There may have been some earlier too, probably
before I got there in 1975. But the first year
McClure was there, we spent about